# Board Meeting 174

* Date: 11 December 2017
* Time: 19:00
* Address: 33 Kent Ave., Kitchener, ON
* Meeting Type: Board Meeting
* Minutes by: Chris Bruner

## Attending
* Present: Doug Moen, Jim Fare, , Shaun Zimmerman, Melisa Pynkoski, Mike Robertson, Chris Bruner
* Absent: Jim Tigwell

## Call to Order
* Called to order
 * by: 
 * seconded: 
 * approved: 
 * at: 

## Approval of Agenda
* Motion to approve 
 * by: 
 * seconded: 
 * approved: 

## Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes
* Approval of minutes from board meeting 173
 * motion to approve 
 * by: 
 * seconded: 
 * approved: 
 

## Report from President
* 169: "Welcome to all of the new board members, and we're looking forward to another great year...Another awesome new year."
* 170: 134 Sydney St. Possible future location of Kwartzlab.  8000sq ft, office in front, 3 washrooms, storage available , good parking, green areas for bbq, blacksmith etc.  600V 3phase, $11 sqft, $7516 month. Ben Brown supplied photos

https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0B1H4pdf5QGKQQi00b3BnTXpvekk

Expansion team set up consisting of Ben Brown, Doug Moen and Josh Bean (to be asked). Goal is to test the waters and see if funding might be available as far as government assistance and to explore the idea of renting space out to professional makers in our group (Ravi, Drew and others). 
* 171-172: Nothing awesome to report, other than Kwartzlab is awesome. 
* 173: Not quite the year end summary yet...We're growing as an organization in our ability to deal with membership issues. Plus we got some new tools! Like the new 3d printer. I also heard a rumour that the big vertical mill is approved for use. Has anyone used it yet? 
* 174: 

## Report from Treasurer
* 169: Role is still in transition, but things are progressing. 
* 170: Working away at things
* 171: The insurance has gone up a little bit, which is expected and has been added on the Github. 
* 172: Still have to properly allocate the tool lockout money. Need to meet with Steph to figure it out. 
* 173: Tool lockout money allocated. 
* 174: 

* Motion to accept the November, 2017 Financial Report
 * by: 
 * seconded: 
 * approved: 

## Recurring Business

### Previous Meeting Action Items
 * Steph: document best practices for treasurer & cash handling procedures for special events
   * 143: Steph will draft a thing
   * [...]
   * 165: Further documentation will need to happen with the new Treasurer, or in cooperation with Steph. 
   * 167: ditto
   * 169 - 172: Melissa and Jim  to meet with Steph and continue documenting procedures and best practices. 
 
 * Long Term Strategic Planning
   * 161: Doug proposed one meeting a year dedicated to discussing the long term vision and strategy of the lab, and to begin organizing an unconference on the direction of Kwartzlab.
   * 162: [...]
   * 163: Doug delegates to Ben, Neil, and Drew. there's merit to holding a planning meeting once a month on the direction of Kwartzlab.
     * Discussion around the possibility of leasing at 44 Gaukel once the city's RFP for property management has progressed.
     * Doug to talk with Thom Ryan concerning 44 Gaukel and Catalyst to get the lay of the land.
     * Discussion around membership growth plan, and creating a sustainable space for makers in KW
     * Proposed assembling a team to address growth and sustainability issues.
   * 164: There may be an opportunity to work with KW woodworking club, circumstances depending. 
   * 165: KW Woodworking Club has relocated successfully. Jim to follow up with Ben, Neil, and Drew. 
   * 166: KW Woodworking Club may have additional space in their building. John to chat with Tony and follow up. 
   * 167: John will talk to Tony tomorrow
   * 169: Doug to follow up with John about meeting with the KW Woodworking Club
   * 171: Jim Fare has been consulting with the professional makers in our community about ways to cooperate on an expanded space. Additional consultation needed with the appointed expansion team. Jim Fare to follow up with Josh to talk about assisting the expansion team.
   * 172: Josh has agreed to find us money/grant. Team to go to meeting with Josh includes Doug, Chris,  Thurs 19 at Kwartzlab. Action item Doug to email list about meeting. Open for anyone.
   * 173: Doug to post a message to the announce list to invite comment, to form agenda items for a meeting to follow on Thursday, November 23. 
   * 174: Tennessee has volunteered to be deputy membership coordinator, with Melissa, Ben, Tennesee and Doug working on a template for the job. 
     * Resolved to revisit what the board is for, and how to delegate more day to day things
     * Christine van Walraven recommends assigning jobs to teams, ensuring that everyone has a backup, and that new people are trained. 
   
* Warden report (Christine)
  * 163: Christine to investigate the possibilities of a property maintenance warden
  * 164: Tony has volunteered to be the Property Maintenance warden
  * 165: Wardens are moving well, but there are issues with members and the 3d printers. 3d Printer Warden wants to run a retraining program. 
  * 166: Warden Warden absent from meeting. 
  * 167: Arno & I need to work on a new cleaning schedule.
    Still looking for new art director and new media warden.
    I'm considering the idea of a not-a-security warden who tracks stuff that goes missing.
    "Asset Tracking Warden".
    We'll need a summer warden meeting.
  * 169: Jim to follow up with Christine about the next Warden meeting 
  * 170: Jim Fare to take over as Warden Warden
  * 171: Jim Fare to call a Warden meeting, and to find a new 3d printer Warden. The warden mailing list has been created. 
  * 172: Jim F didn't get it done, will try again. 
  * 173: A warden meeting is needed to commiserate and brainstorm how to adequately train people on all of the things we warden. 
    * Need more regular training sessions. 
    * Discussions of lockouts. Who needs what where? 
    * List of trained members and trainers for each area, and specific skills for each devices. 
    * Confirm budgets for different wardens is adequate. 
    * Jim F to buy pizza, and to hold Warden Court at an available open night on November 28. 
  
* Dank meme warden
  * 163: Steph to find who runs our social media
  * 164: Christine to put the word out for a dank meme Warden, Jim to draft a social media plan of some sorts. 
  * 165: We have yet to find a Propaganda Overlord. 
  * 166: Jim to draft a plan, the search for a dank meme is ongoing. 
  * 167: Christine: we've had volunteers to be minions, but not a volunteer to be the overlord.
  * 172: Doug will email David Mudie to see if he is interested. 
  * 173: David Mudie is not interested. 
   
 * Tools & training - Request to the board for a training rubric or checklist for tools. Additional determination of who is warden for which tools, and who is a qualified trainer. 
   * 170: Training rubric to be discussed at Warden Meeting, Ben Brown to create a warden mailing list.
   * 171: No action yet. 
   * 172: Jim Fare will discuss at warden/warden meeting
   
 * Tool Lockouts - Discussion on board list to pursue and prioritize lockouts on tools.
   * 170: Preapproved purchase of lockouts of up to $600, which should cover 10 tools and 2 doors at approximately $50 a piece.
   * 171: Jim Fare to seek an update from Ben Brown on tool lockouts
   * 172: No update available, Shaun will inquire with Ben about tool lockouts
   * 173: Ben and Neil report that they are working on it. Ben has set aside November as his Kwartzlab project month. 
   * 174: Ben currently waiting on parts
      
 * Probationary term for new members
   * 173: The board would like to introduce a probationary membership status, in order to address issue that may arise from new members. 
     * Doug to draft an item to the members list for discussion of probatioary membership.
 
 * Clean up members mailing list/database
   * 173: Jim T to clean up the members database and reconcile the mailing list
 

## New Business
  * Year End checkin
  
  * New Fire Safety Protocol
  
  * Snow Removal Service
  
  * Safety Report
  
   
### New Members

 * David Moscoe
 
 * Motion to approve
 * by: Doug
 * seconded: Jim F
 * approved: Unanimous

### Member Hiatus
 
 
### Member withdrawals

 
### Overdue Accounts (In Camera)


### Reimbursements & Purchase Approvals



## Review of New Action Items from this Meeting

  
## Adjournment
* Motion to adjourn
 * by: Doug
 * seconded by: Mike
 * passes: Unanimous
* Adjourned at: 
