# Board Meeting 176

* Date: 08 February 2018
* Time: 19:00
* Address: 33 Kent Ave., Kitchener, ON
* Meeting Type: Board Meeting
* Minutes by: 

## Attending
* Present: 
* Absent: 

## Call to Order
* Called to order
 * by: 
 * seconded: 
 * approved: 
 * at: 

## Approval of Agenda
* Motion to approve 
 * by: 
 * seconded: 
 * approved: 

## Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes
* Approval of minutes from board meeting 175
 * motion to approve 
 * by: 
 * seconded: 
 * approved: 
 

## Report from President
* 171-172: Nothing awesome to report, other than Kwartzlab is awesome. 
* 173: Not quite the year end summary yet...We're growing as an organization in our ability to deal with membership issues. Plus we got some new tools! Like the new 3d printer. I also heard a rumour that the big vertical mill is approved for use. Has anyone used it yet? 
* 174: 
* 175: Kwartzlab is awesome. 

## Report from Treasurer
* 171: The insurance has gone up a little bit, which is expected and has been added on the Github. 
* 172: Still have to properly allocate the tool lockout money. Need to meet with Steph to figure it out. 
* 173: Tool lockout money allocated. 
* 174: 
* 175: "I just need to never talk." expired rent cheque replaced, a foreseen thing

* Motion to accept the January, 2018 Financial Report
 * by: 
 * seconded: 
 * approved: 

## Recurring Business

### Previous Meeting Action Items
 * Steph: document best practices for treasurer & cash handling procedures for special events
   * 143: Steph will draft a thing
   * [...]
   * 165: Further documentation will need to happen with the new Treasurer, or in cooperation with Steph. 
   * 167: ditto
   * 169 - 172: Melissa and Jim  to meet with Steph and continue documenting procedures and best practices. 
 
 * Long Term Strategic Planning
   * 161: Doug proposed one meeting a year dedicated to discussing the long term vision and strategy of the lab, and to begin organizing an unconference on the direction of Kwartzlab.
   * 162: [...]
   * 163: Doug delegates to Ben, Neil, and Drew. there's merit to holding a planning meeting once a month on the direction of Kwartzlab.
     * Discussion around the possibility of leasing at 44 Gaukel once the city's RFP for property management has progressed.
     * Doug to talk with Thom Ryan concerning 44 Gaukel and Catalyst to get the lay of the land.
     * Discussion around membership growth plan, and creating a sustainable space for makers in KW
     * Proposed assembling a team to address growth and sustainability issues.
   * 164: There may be an opportunity to work with KW woodworking club, circumstances depending. 
   * 165: KW Woodworking Club has relocated successfully. Jim to follow up with Ben, Neil, and Drew. 
   * 166: KW Woodworking Club may have additional space in their building. John to chat with Tony and follow up. 
   * 167: John will talk to Tony tomorrow
   * 169: Doug to follow up with John about meeting with the KW Woodworking Club
   * 171: Jim Fare has been consulting with the professional makers in our community about ways to cooperate on an expanded space. Additional consultation needed with the appointed expansion team. Jim Fare to follow up with Josh to talk about assisting the expansion team.
   * 172: Josh has agreed to find us money/grant. Team to go to meeting with Josh includes Doug, Chris,  Thurs 19 at Kwartzlab. Action item Doug to email list about meeting. Open for anyone.
   * 173: Doug to post a message to the announce list to invite comment, to form agenda items for a meeting to follow on Thursday, November 23. 
   * 174: Tennessee has volunteered to be deputy membership coordinator, with Melissa, Ben, Tennesee and Doug working on a template for the job. 
     * Resolved to revisit what the board is for, and how to delegate more day to day things
     * Christine van Walraven recommends assigning jobs to teams, ensuring that everyone has a backup, and that new people are trained. 
   * 175: Strategic Planning Document reviewed by the board, and will be posted to the Members list by Melissa for discussion. 
   
* Warden report (Christine)
  * 173: A warden meeting is needed to commiserate and brainstorm how to adequately train people on all of the things we warden. 
    * Need more regular training sessions. 
    * Discussions of lockouts. Who needs what where? 
    * List of trained members and trainers for each area, and specific skills for each devices. 
    * Confirm budgets for different wardens is adequate. 
    * Jim F to buy pizza, and to hold Warden Court at an available open night on November 28. 
  * 175: Chris loves meetings, and volunteers to be the new Warden Warden
  
* Dank meme warden
  * 172: Doug will email David Mudie to see if he is interested. 
  * 173: David Mudie is not interested. 
   
 * Tools & training - Request to the board for a training rubric or checklist for tools. Additional determination of who is warden for which tools, and who is a qualified trainer. 
   * 175: Cubicon training has started literally tonight, and members are highly interested. 
   
 * Tool Lockouts - Discussion on board list to pursue and prioritize lockouts on tools.
   * 173: Ben and Neil report that they are working on it. Ben has set aside November as his Kwartzlab project month. 
   * 174: Ben currently waiting on parts
   * 175: Ben is testing some new RFID modules, has been printing out cases on the big Cubicon, front door and back door locks have been converted to the new system. Designing the laser lockout and an integrated lockout for the CNC tools
      
 
 * Snow Removal Service
    * 174: Dirt and Snow removal. 519 581 7113 Ghent Winter works Chris will contact
    * 175: Ghent didn't meet our needs. Mike has several quotes, to contact the best quote. 
   
 

## New Business
 
  * New board appointment
  
  * Signing authority transfer
  
  * Warden exemptions
  
  * Conditions of membership return
   
### New Members
  
  * David Moscoe
  * Nick Read
  * John Potts
  * Wesley Sak


 * Motion to approve
   * by: 
   * seconded: 
   * approved: 

### Member Hiatus
 
 
### Member withdrawals

 * Mike Robertson
 
### Overdue Accounts (In Camera)


### Reimbursements & Purchase Approvals

* John Potts
   * $57.00 for fence repair materials
* Sean Stoughton
  * $13.55 for firewatch timer

* Motion to approve
 * by: 
 * seconded: 
 * approved: 

## Review of New Action Items from this Meeting
  
  
## Adjournment
* Motion to adjourn
 * by: 
 * seconded by: 
 * passes: 
* Adjourned at: 
